1. Using proper pseudo-code, describe the following primitive algorithms:

A. Making coffee;

PROGRAM MakeCoffee:

    Fetch Supplies:
        GET coffee AND filters AND scoop from cabinet;
        GET 12 cups of water from tap;
    
    Make Coffee in Pot:
        ADD one filter in coffee maker;
        ADD four scoops of coffee in coffee maker;
        ADD 12 cups of water to coffee maker;
        INIT turn on the coffee maker;
 
END

B. Washing dishes;

PROGRAM WasdDishes:

        GET count dirty dishes

        WHILE dirty dishes > 0;
            IF top shelf item
                THEN place on top shelf
            ELSE IF utensil
                THEN place in utensil holder
            ELSE 
                place on bottom shelf
            END IF
        END WHILE

        ADD dishwashing tablet
        INIT power on dishwasher
END

C. A choice of your own.

PROGRAM morningCrazy:

SET children to array of 1, 2, 3
SET mom to me

FOR EACH child
        REPEAT UNTIL child is in shower OR mom enters room 
            WHEN alarm rings
            IF (child is not shower OR mom is not in roon )
                HIT snooze button
                WAIT until alarm rings
            ELSE
                TURN off the alarm
                WAIT 10 minutes
                GET out of bed
                GET into the shower
            END IF
        END REPEAT
END FOR

2. As with the knot algorithm, there may be more than one way to solve the problem. It is essential to try to pick the best algorithm for a situation. Name three companies who created an algorithm that made them successful, e.g., Google's search algorithm. It doesn't need to be a tech example (such as a recipe or manufacturing a product). Google's algorithm produces more relevant results than other search engines; what about each of your cases make them stand out?

UPS used algorithms to save their drives up to 86 million miles per year by calculating the most eefficient routes for their drivers.

Lyft and Uber used algorithms to match drivers to passangers, making getting a ride much faster.

Netflix uses predictive algorithm to serve up content to users that they will most likely want to watch.

All of these companies have been disruptors and trend setters in their industries, and have turned their algorithms into pretty big revenue streams!

3. Hypothesize about what constitutes an efficient algorithm versus an inefficient algorithm.

To know whether an algorithm is efficient, you need to consider the time and space complexities.

Time complexity is how much time an algorithm takes to run in relation to the input.
Space complexity is the amount of memory space an algorithm takes in relation to input.